We have breaking
news tonight out of the Middle East
where Israeli officials
are vowing to respond
after a deadly strike
in the Golan Heights.
When when
they responded saying at least 11
people were killed,
including children
when rockets fired from Lebanon
hit a football field.
We spoke with former Israeli Prime
minister Naftali Bennett last hour.
He said both Hezbollah
and Lebanon
have effectively declared war on Israel
and Israel must now respond accordingly.
The state of Lebanon
essentially shot a rocket made in Iran.
We know the name of the guy who shot it.
His name is Ali Mahmoud Yesha.
These rockets were made in Iran.
Iranian rockets, 50 kilograms of warhead.
And it's time that we hit back.
Jeremy Diamond is on the ground for us
where this strike hit.
Jeremy, we see it behind you there.
What are you hearing about all of this?
You know,
Jessica, we arrived on the scene
and the mood is very, very heavy here.
The Israeli military now
says that 12 people were killed
and these are all
children and young adults
between the ages of ten and 20.
Several dozen more were injured,
some of them
in very serious condition
at local hospitals.
But this is the deadliest incident
since October 7th on civilians
since the beginning of this conflict,
according to the Israeli military.
And there are now very real concerns
that this could trigger
a broader escalation in this conflict.
But before we get to that,
I do want to bring in Timor here,
who actually lives right across
from this soccer field
where this strike actually happened.
Timor.
You were nearby.
You.
You heard the sirens
and you actually saw this rocket
hit right here? Yeah, I did.
I live about 50 meters across
from the playground on the first floor,
so I have a direct
view of what happened here.
I was just sitting on my desk.
I got my notification
and like, 2 seconds later, maybe less.
I heard the sirens.
I just rushed to the window.
Not even 45 seconds.
I opened the window.
I was just looking straight.
I saw it hit.
I thought I saw the kids
panicking, running around.
And that happened around 6:18 p.m.,
something like that.
And I just ran straight here.
I got here, like, 10 minutes later.
And that's when I arrived to the scene.
And I had, like, a clear
vision of the impact
and of the crater zone.
So that's what I saw.
And so you heard the warning
sirens telling you
that rockets were coming in.
But but it was just seconds.
No, there's not enough time.
That's impossible.
If someone tells you otherwise
that it's impossible, even.
Possible to get to. What, 4 to 5 seconds?
What can you do in 45 seconds?
You can do nothing.
It's like you said,
if I'm saying 5 seconds, maybe I'm just.
It's too long.
I think it's 4 seconds, maybe less.
Like the sirens were still going on.
That's when we heard.
I heard them back then.
I saw it
and I saw the kids
like you know, you're
talking about kids and children also.
They have a reaction time.
They're panicking.
They're going to stress
they need much more time than that.
Even if you have 5 seconds
and you're
completely aware of the situation,
you wouldn't have enough time
to react to this.
And so so once you saw that rocket
actually hit,
you came here, you came to the scene.
I did.
And what what what did you see?
Well, at first I saw the injured
and your children running around.
I saw blood.
They didn't respond to us.
They were panicking.
I saw a lot of guys gathering here.
Most of them didn't go down.
I went down here
and I saw a lot of things
that are way too gruesome to mention
out of respect for the families.
And we tried to help, but it was beyond
our help. There is nothing we can do.
There were injuries that you saw
that were
too gruesome, too critical
for any medical attention.
So there's nothing you can do?
No, I'm not.
I will not go into details,
but there's nothing you can do.
And this
this area around 6 p.m.,
you know, it's summer.
Yeah, it must be.
It's summer.
Kids are playing.
And we kind of got used to the situation
because it's been going on for a while.
We hear the sirens
all the time and we just.
We just got used to it.
Nothing like this ever happened before.
And tell me about this. This community.
I mean, when we came out here,
everyone is around.
Everyone is still up.
It's very late at night.
It's two in the morning,
but everyone is still up.
Everybody must feel very impacted.
It's a very close knit community,
of course.
I mean,
if you look around,
everybody is helping,
trying to prepare for the ceremony
for the funerals tomorrow.
And because everybody knows everybody
and everybody is related to someone
and we know the kids,
we know the children,
all the families is well connected.
And so we stand together
in good or in bad.
And this is what's happening right now.
It's a dark day for our town.
It's a tragedy that hit us all.
And this day will be remembered
for generations to come.
And and it will go down in history
as this is a must
and not just in our town,
in the whole of the country.
As you said, it's the deadliest attack
since the 7th of October.
And it's happened in the
in our small village.
So what is
what is the feeling around here?
Obviously, there's sadness.
Is there anger as well with that?
And and where is
that anger being directed?
I don't know what the answer is.
I mean,
this anger is directed at the war
in general, because, you know, in war
there is no one is winning.
We're all losing.
And the longer it goes
on, the more we're going to lose
and we're helpless.
There is nothing
not much that we can do,
but I think that should be a response
for what's happened here today.
And we will not go quiet
until we get a response
for what's happened here,
because these are our children.
These are our children, you know,
and what's happened
here is unforgettable.
Like, just look at it.
They're just kids playing
soccer, playing football here.
And they didn't even look at the shelter.
It's only like a few meters away,
but I'm quite sure
they didn't have enough time
to get there, even if they were there.
Acted like instantly
there was not enough time. Yeah.
Thank you so much.
Teamwork, Jessica. I do.
I do want to bring you closer
to the scene here because
this is where you can see this crater.
Right here is where that rocket
actually struck.
The Israeli military says that this was
an Iranian made
rocket that they say
is only in Hezbollah's arsenal.
Hezbollah has denied responsibility
for this attack,
but the Israeli military says
that they are clear
that this was Hezbollah
that carried out this attack.
They say that the rocket
was fired from a village
in southern Lebanon.
And you can
they say that this was an Iranian war,
miss a rocket.
Forgive me,
that had a 50 kilo warhead
attached to it.
You can also see behind here
there are bicycles.
This scene is
is effectively frozen
in time from the moment
when this strike happens.
And just to bring you over to the side,
I have my cameraman offset pan around.
You can see how close this is.
That cinderblock building right
there is a safe space.
That is where you rush to
when you hear those sirens.
And so just so devastating
to see
how close
these children were to that shelter.
But obviously,
with just a few seconds to be able
to try and rush into there once
they heard
those sirens was simply simply
not enough.
And the results now
12 people,
according to the Israeli military
who are dead
between the ages of ten and 20
and an entire community here
that is absolutely devastated.
Just it is truly,
truly devastating news,
Jeremy, And clearly just so heartbreaking
for that whole community
and these children
who are just playing soccer
to be targeted in that way.
We know that Prime Minister
Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu was still in the U.S.
when this happened.
He cut his trip short.
He's now headed back.
We're told
he'll be convening
with his war cabinet upon his arrival.
What are you hearing about
how the government
might be responding to this?
Well, there was a
very swift response
from a number of government officials,
all of them making very clear
that there will be a response
for this attack, a very serious response,
and that the Israeli prime
minister himself said,
I can say that the state of Israel
will not be silence about this.
We will not put this off the agenda.
Benny Gantz,
a former member of the war cabinet,
a member of the opposition.
Now, he came to Majdal Shams
this evening
to meet with community leaders,
and he was also making very clear
that not only will there be a response,
but that the Israeli government
will have his support
as a member of the opposition
for a decisive response in Lebanon,
and that really is now the big question.
There have been fears
not only in Israel but also in the U.S.
government that an incident
like this one with so many casualties,
notably civilian casualties,
and in this case,
many of them
being children,
that an incident
like this
could potentially set off
a very dangerous escalation,
potentially lead to war.
And that is certainly the question
now, is whether or not
the escalation,
the response from Israel
will be so severe
that it could lead to that
all out conflict
with Hezbollah,
that all out war with Hezbollah
that so many have feared.
At this hour,
it is too premature to say
whether or not that will happen.
What is clear
is that we've been hearing
the sounds of jets buzzing above us.
We are very close
to the Lebanese border here.
It is clear that the Israeli military
will respond to this attack,
which they say was carried out
by Hezbollah.
How severe that response will be
will determine
the course of things, will determine
what the counter reaction from Hezbollah
will be
and will determine
whether or not we are headed
for a very,
very dangerous and deadly path Jessica.
Jeremy Diamond, live from Golan Heights,
the new reporting there.
Thank you so much for that.